# Context Engineering: Lessons Learned from Scaling CoCounsel

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sLFv3RSj_d8

## <Untitled Chapter 1> & Early Work with GPT-4 & Pivot to Co-Counsel

Alright, everybody, my name's Jake. We're going to be talking about lessons we learned in what we were used to call Prompt Engineering, may still in the future call Prompt Engineering, while building a product called CoCounsel. So, you might be wondering, like, who the heck is this guy and why am I listening to him? Very brief background. I founded a company called Case Text 12 years ago, Summer 13 at YC, so it's been a minute. I am that old, in fact. Fast forward, like, nine years. And we were working on AI & Law for the entirety of our existence. And as a result, we got early access to GPT-4. We were just very close with OpenAI. Before even Chat GPT came out, we were using GPT-4. And what we noticed immediately, and I'll get these two bullet points out at the same time, we started pivoting the entire company essentially around Co-Counsel. We had a different business. It was based on AI, it was business in law, but we pivoted the entire company around GPT-4. Because what we saw early on was that GPT-4 could finally, unlike GPT-3 or 3.5, or any other model we've seen or developed ourselves, was able to do complex legal tasks at a rate that was not perfect, but was also around the same rate that humans can do for a lot of these tasks. And of course, you can scale it, unlike humans, to hundreds of different things tasked at the same time. And even if you couldn't scale it in certain circumstances, it's still faster than people. So it's something all of a sudden that was faster and better.

## Success with GPT-4 & Acquisition by Thomson Reuters

Legal Task is the area that we served, and that blew us away. We're the guys that did the study that showed that GPT-3.5 scored in the 10th percentile on the bar examination, but when you did GPT-4 on the same exam, it got to the 90th percentile. And this is an exam that was not in the training set unlike basically all the evals today. And so, we were just absolutely blown away with this model and built a whole product and company around it. It was pretty massively successful. The idea of having the first AI assistant for lawyers is something that a lot of our customers are looking for this functionality that we are offering through Co-Counsel. It's something that they'd been asking for us for the first decade of our business. And we're like, that's ridiculous. We can't build that. We need some genius AI to do that. And then all of a sudden, you know, kind of handed to us. So, we're able to be successful, in part because we're just doing what our customers asked for. And based on that success, we were, you know, acquired by a company called Thomson Reuters in 2023. So, literally two days ago, it was my two-year anniversary, which, when you all do the acquisition thing, you'll find out it was a very important milestone. And, you know, we've continued to hone some of the prompt engineering or context engineering techniques since then, which is why we're talking to you about it now.

## Introduction to Context Engineering & Developing Co-Counsel: Three Big Steps

Before I get into the fun and meet stuff, just an order of semantics, I'm actually not sure about context engineering as the meme. It may or may not be the right thing because as I'll talk about, I think that most prompts are instruction-press context, at least most prompts of consequence, instruction plus context. So they call it context engineering is really talking about in some sense, one part of it, but it's just semantics. Let's get into the actual, you know, how to do it, whatever you want to call it.

From a high level, there are really three big steps that we took when we're developing co-counsel that I think still apply today. The first is, and this is developing the whole application, and then we'll work backwards from there to where each step of the application fits in, and then how each prompt or context, whatever you want to call it, these days, fits.

## Defining the Customer Experience

In our case, it was a suite of different what we call skills that CoCounsel could do, so imagine CoCounsel almost like Chat GPT with tools basically, and each tool was another skill and those skills could be things like do complex legal research, or read over a hundred or a thousand documents and tell me what's in them, or review them. If you were a contract and tell me what needs to change in order to be like what my company needs. And these skills mapped on for us pretty well to what actual lawyer's skills would do. These are the kind of skills that if you're a lawyer you might list on a resume of skills, like here is the things I can do, I can do research, I can do contractor view, etc. That's the way we thought about, it's not the only way to think about it, but in our case it was a chat application with tools. In our case might be a big button you press, and then it randomly generates a pump, or it might be uploaded document, analyze the documents and they comes out, but there might be different you guys, but be really mindful about what is the ideal customer experience. And then from there, for us anyways, we ask, how will the world's best lawyer do that task?

## Legal Research Example

So, for legal research to use as a concrete example, the world's best lawyer with an infinite amount of time would take the question given to them, and maybe first they just clarify. So, the prompt one, clarify.

What is, you know, I need to understand, you're trying to search just federal case law or state case law, are you trying to understand this angle or that angle, right? So there might be a clarification step, and in fact you saw this creep out later in deep research, one of the iterations from ChatGPT if you saw that, right? So maybe that's one step. But after the clarification step, then you have a step where you formulate a number of search queries. That's what I would do if I was a real legal researcher as a lawyer, as it did before case sex as a lawyer, so you know, so I might, you know, try this kind of search query, that kind of search query, these kinds of words, that kind of words, maybe 20 or 30 or 50 different search queries, and then I'd execute those search queries and review each of the results one by one, and the best law in the world to read every single page, everything, single result that came back and analyze, is this actually relevant to what I'm doing? If so, how does it help answer the question? Maybe I'll make some notes about how this case relates to the final answer, compile that into a big note pad, and then finally I take all those notes and compile it to a final answer I give to my client. Those are the steps for that task.

## Linear vs. Agentic Tasks

Sometimes the tasks will be pretty linear and predictable. And in that case, don't be Agentic behind the scenes. Just program it in. If you imagine Python codes, like DEF, Step 1, DEF, Step 2, Step 3, and then you literally just do task, DEF 1, DEF 2, whatever, Step 1, Step 2, Step 3. So sometimes it's really linear and sometimes it's agentic. Actually, if you do a number of searches, but if you're realizing you're not finding what you're looking for, then go back to Step 1 and try some more searches and try some other. So you have to figure out for yourself, how would the best person do this and are they acting more agentically, so to speak, or more just steps. So how would the best person in the world do this? That's your architecture, for that scale or task or whatever, in my opinion. That's at least version 1 or version 0. There may be things that humans aren't even able to do, that the world's best X could not even comprehensively, you know, there's no way that they could possibly do it, then maybe you can be a little creative here. But I'd start with how the world's best human attack, attack this problem. And then within that, there are multiple micro-step steps. And I told you some of them, clarify the search query, run number, this number of searches, review the results that came back from the searches, review based on those results, you know, start making notes. These are all micro-steps. And there may be micro-steps in that. Each micro-step is either code or prompt, and increasingly in difficult tasks that we're all doing these days that we're impossible to do, like, unthinkable to do before GPT-4, basically, but there's now possible to do. Those are mostly going to be prompts. So that's how you work down to, like, the prompt level. And it's important as a developer to understand where in the flow, what this was, the job of each prompt, right? Like, what is the job of each prompt doing when it's trying to accomplish this task for the user?

## Writing Effective Prompts

From there, you have to make the prompt actually work, and this is where most people try and fail, and then move on because this is an impossible problem to solve. I'm not going to build an AI application. So, the first thing I recommend, the method that we worked through, and it's pretty simplistic, but you'd be surprised about how few people do it this way, so I would recommend, even if it may sound really stupid and simple, that to try to do it this way,

Step 1 is you just write a prompt that you're best guess of achieving this activity.

Step 2 is write one good legal research query, and then you define the prompt, you know, all the instructions, this is where like, having some subject matter expertise really helps. So if you're like a really good researcher, you can give it these instructions about how to write a great legal research query. And then you also write, start with 10 evals. What is a good legal research query? And the idea is given the prompt, which is the context, and then in case the context is the user query, and your instructions, what is the objectively correct answer, or how would you measure an objectively correct answer, and start writing down these evals.

Here's where tooling gets into play.

When I develop a home, I use prompt food, it's free, it's open source, it is simple and command line. There is a host of tools, though, that are paid and cloud-based, and are awesome. I've used Valium before, I don't know if they're here, those guys are cool. So there's so many different tools, just pick one, and make sure I can do this task of you write a prompt, you give it context, other circumstance by the way, maybe the full text of a document, you're asking questions about that document. The prompt might be instructions around doing the next chest move, and the context is the chest game up to this point, right? So instructions plus context, whatever it may be for you, make sure that given the following instructions in context, it actually does the task well. And what my guess is, is that the first prompt you write, it's going to pass six out of your 10 tests, and that's the moment most people go, well, AI is fucking stupid, but I guess the way to GPT-6, I guess. It's over for me, this application is doomed. And here's where the hard part is, you just keep working until you pass all 10 tests. Even if it takes you a week or two weeks, what I tell everybody who works for me is that the definition of a good prompt engineer is somebody who can write pretty well. And also, like, concisely, directly understandably write great instructions, and also somebody who's willing to not sleep for two weeks straight until they get it right. That's what it takes. Because what you'll find is that you thought your instructions were clear, but then it gets it wrong every time when this dumb question.

Okay, let's read the instructions again. Where is it unclear? Where am I not being cleared to this AI? Where am I using the wrong model or doing the wrong setting? Temperature to two, which is somehow possible or 10 and somehow possible with Gemini models. I don't really understand that. It's crazy. It's like one is kind of crazy and tends like let's go with nuts here, but maybe just tries the temperature zero or zero point five or whatever, right? Maybe I set thinking too much or too little or whatever. You just keep on experimenting mostly with the instruction because these models are very smart and they will follow instructions better and better and better, but with everything else as well model settings, et cetera, until you get 10 out of 10. And then you keep on iterating, iterating, iterating, iterating, and then you go to 50 and then 100 and then 1000 per prompt.

Okay, this is what it takes. Because by the time you get to 1000 and another kind of test here is not the 1000 that you thought of by yourself just in a dark room. But what are the kinds of things your users are likely to throw at you? Can you anticipate pre-launch? What are the kinds of crazy shit you're using to pump into it? We were shocked by how dumb the legal research queries put people put into co-counsel. We are just totally blown away. But that's the reality of our users and many users, even people who are highly educated like lawyers. So be prepared to try to anticipate as best as you can what lawyers or lawyers and I said lawyers actually users will put into your into your application. What kind of context will look like and maybe have a small beta program where you tell your customers it is going to be bad at first. We're looking for that and we're looking for you to tell us the times you tried it and give us that that information so that we can put it as part of our tests. That's how you get to 1000 tests usually driven by your customers. I kind of dumped on context engineering as the meme because I think it's context plus instructions equals prompt. But again, we'll probably hear some disagreements throughout the presentations. It doesn't matter really, it's just semantics.

## Importance of Context

There are times where we try to go back to this legal research example. I can't believe the AI is getting the answer wrong. It's so stupid. But then we actually just sat down and read, and sometimes it's like 10 pages or 100 pages. It's read it. And we realized, oh, given this information, I would say the same thing the AI does. It doesn't have the right information. This is especially the case if, and I recommend this, you tell the AI, don't answer based on any of your previously existing knowledge just based on what I'm giving you right here. If this thing says the sky is purple, the sky is damn purple, right? That's a good instruction to give, by the way, if you're worried that the AI is going to hallucinate based on the information put in, you should be really, really, really clear. It must be based on the context given.

## Challenges in Prompt Engineering

OK, well, but what happens if you retrieval sucks? And the information that comes in is garbage. How could you possibly expect a human, let alone an AI, to answer the question accurately if the retrieval sucks?

So now you have to, you think you're working on Prompt Engineering or Context Engineering, but you're really working on as retrieval. Go Chrome. Or, you know, or maybe you have another problem. For us, believe it or not, like OCR was a huge issue. Legal documents are total messes. And what we'd see time and time and time again is that when we read the OCR, it was gibberish. It was total mess. No human in their right mind to get the right answer. Sometimes the AI would get it right and we were shocked because the words are out of order and it still figured it out.

OK, so now you have an OCR problem, not a prompt engineering problem. So that, that, like, really opening up another hood and seeing it like the AI sees it, read it verbatim, including all the information put in, the spacing. Yeah, it sometimes matters. If it's hard for you to read, it'll be hard for the AI to read. It's a general rule. AI can do some things you can't do. But if you can make it readable and easy, then you're going to have a really good place. That's what I just say. Look at the actual, like, actual information in there. And again, I want to double underscore this because it's going to be the difference between you making a prompt that works and a prompt that doesn't work. If you're not willing to stay up, where you are your employees or whoever, not willing to stay up for two hour, two weeks straight, not sleeping, just working on the prompt, you're not going to make it. All right. You just need to do that in order to get to a place where the prompt's actually working at at scale accurately in the way you wanted to. So that's that's our secret success. It's actually pretty simple evals per prompt. Given this information and instructions, it should answer this. If you don't answering this, it is red, not green. I have to keep on working on the instructions or the information that's coming in until this is green. Let's move on to the next text and the next test and the next test. By the time you're passing like 999 out of a thousand and that one is kind of debatable, now you're ready to go released to a wider audience and my thing. Right now you have some degree of reliability. It's not guaranteed and you should never tell your customers, it's going to be fucking perfect because it's not going to be fucking perfect, but it'll be really good, especially if you anticipated all the different edge cases your customers will throw at it.

## Tricks and Tips for Prompt Engineering

A few other quick tricks. First of all, the way that the AI works, as you probably know, is it reads over the entire prompt, and also whether all the tokens is generated so far, for every token has to generate. So, for every token you generate, it takes a while. And this is less true now that the bottle is getting faster, and it will quantize like crazy, and so on. But when we start at GPT-4, slow, and if you want to do something like read like a million documents over the course of a few hours or even a few minutes, okay, well, good luck if it's generating a lot of content. But there's a trick here, make it just have one token at its response. That means it does that whole process of reading the entire context and outputting a token once, as opposed to twice or three times, right. And there are some really creative things you can do here with stopwords. One thing we love to do is, and this is more true of completion models and chat models, and unfortunately the world's moved to chat models. But we would give the whole prompt, tell it the output format, is like, first you just tell us the number on a scale of 1. 1 to 10 of whatever we're trying to look for. Just the number. And those are all just one tokens each. 10's also a single token, right. Or a single word, like true or false, or if there's a gradient there of true false, maybe whatever, right. And then give your explanation to your AI. Here's the craziest shit. The AI will give a slightly better answer because it thinks it's about to give a whole explanation as to defend its number. But you, you stop words or max tokens at one. So the AI just outputs one token and then you just cut it right off. It's like stop talking, right. You've got your fast response. And you also got the AI to think a little bit harder before it's given its answer. That's a good trick. Similarly, for eval purposes, even if you're going to have it output its whole explanation, you want a big nice JSON blob that has all the stuff in it. Make it give its numeric or objective answer first. That makes evals so much easier. Evals are way easier when you can say like matches word X rather than having LLM as a judge for every single one of them. So the LLM is judges sometimes the only you got. Break things into small parts is tempting to try to get the AI to in one prompt or within one context to do like dozen steps. And sometimes it works. And if you can do it. But it's just like people, when you give them a simple task, they'll more or less do it right more often break it down to simple steps.

Finally, something that we're seeing. I think finally.

## Reinforcement Fine-Tuning and Model Selection

The thing that we're seeing is that Reinforcement Fine-Tuning is a lot better than older fine-tunes. A lot of the people in this room are probably turned off to fine-tuning because you tried fine-tuning if you're anything like us, and the gains are minimal at best. And you go, OK, well, why am I getting thousands of different examples just for it to kind of fuck up in the same rate it's fucked up before. In fact, maybe even get dumber, which you saw sometimes.

Reinforcement Fine-Tuning in their hand requires max 50-100 different examples of prompt, so a good answer looks like in how to objectively judge where the answer is good, which is the hardest part of creating these reinforce and fine-tuning fine-tunes for APIs like Open AI or if you're doing it yourself. But it goes a really long way, a really long way. And we're starting to a place where we have a different model for every single prompt, and there are hundreds of thousands of prompts at this point throughout the Co-Counsel ecosystem. For each little micro-step, each micro-step gets its own reinforce and fine-tune model. And that's another way that might get your e-values to go from 900 to that out of thousand to 90. Finally, try different models with different prompts. There's no rule that says it has to be GPT all the way through if you have seven different steps. Just try different models. All these platforms now, including prompt food, which is freaking on your desktop environment, let's you say, try it under different conditions and between different models. And the other thing, too, is you might save a buck. If you can go with GPT 5 mini, as opposed to GPT 5, you might save a lot of bucks. Gemini 2.5 Flash, beautiful model, cheap as fuck. If it works, if you get to your level of satisfaction, use that, don't use 2.5 Pro. So try to experiment with different models. And it might take you pretty far, especially if you have a potentially lower than 100% accuracy rate, it still acceptable for your customers, depending on the use case. All right. Well, that's all I got. Hopefully it's useful. And we'll do questions at the end, I think.
